Hi everybody, welcome to the Data Science Hangout. I'm Rachel Dempsey. I lead Customer
Marketing at Posit. This Hangout is our open space to hear what's going on in the world
of data across different industries and connect with others facing similar things as you.
So we get together here every Thursday at the same time, same place. So if you're watching
this as a recording and want to join us in the future, there's details to add it to your
calendar below. And just make sure it adds it for 12 Eastern time so you can join us
live. And I know from our Hangout survey, people really enjoy getting to connect with
others here in this Hangout space. So if you are interested in connecting with others,
I want to encourage people to say hello in the chat, maybe introduce yourself, your role
or your base or if you want to share your LinkedIn, it's a nice way to make friends
here in the Hangout. We're all dedicated to keeping this the friendly and welcoming space
that you all have made it and love hearing from you no matter your years of experience,
titles, industry or languages that you work in. Something I sometimes forget to add here
is if you're hiring, please feel free to share those roles in the chat as well. Love
to see those shared here. And also 100% OK if you just want to listen in today, although
we love getting to hear from you live. So there's three ways that you can ask questions
or provide your own perspective. So first, you could raise your hand on Zoom and I will
call on you to jump in. Second, you could put questions in the chat and just put a little
asterisk next to it if you want me to read it. Maybe you're in a coffee shop or walking
your dog or something. And then third, we have a Slido link, which I'm sure Curtis shared
already, where you can ask questions anonymously as well. So with that, I am so excited to
introduce our two co-hosts today. So we have Jing Huang joining us, SVP of Bioinformatics
and Data Science at Verisight, as well as Ning Lang, Interim Global Head of Data Sciences
Acceleration at Roche Genentech. And Ning and Jing, I'd love to have you both kick us
off with having you introduce yourself a little bit and your role, but also something you
do outside of work, too.
Very nice to meet everybody. Hope you hear me okay. My name is Ning. I currently work
at Roche Genentech. I'm based in South San Francisco. And I'm part of this huge data
science organization under Roche Genentech. We have about 900 people in our organization
working on clinical trial data, everything related to basically a patient, human-level
data, clinical trial data, real-world data, biomarker data, et cetera. So currently, I'm
the Interim Global Lead of a sub-team of this large organization called Data Science Acceleration.
We are about like a 40-people team, and we are focusing on this transition to open-source
software, transition to modernized solution infrastructure, et cetera. And very nice to
meet everybody. And also, I would love to also see like what are everybody like coming
from like in the audience. So please feel free to use the chat to share like what industry
are you in, where are you coming from. I think that'll be really helpful for our chat today.
And outside of work, like I like outdoor activities. Maybe one fun fact is that earlier this year,
we did a Machu Picchu four-day, three-night hike, which was amazing. Yeah, that's awesome.
Thank you so much, Ning. Jing, do you want to introduce yourself next?
Sure. So my name's Jing. So I work for Verisight. And Verisight, if you don't know,
is a much smaller company compared to Roche, but we are a public company. We actually specialize
in providing diagnostic insight using genomic data. And all of our models are machine learning
models using genomic data as an input, and then give the critical information to the patient,
physician, to better manage the patients. And we have about a dozen products on the market,
fully regulated, and all that. So as a senior VP, I actually deal with data
almost like everywhere about data all the time. Hopefully not all at once.
Biostat clinical studies, and as I mentioned, we have our machine learning model are the key
core engine of our product. And my team develop all those machine learning models and bioinformatics
that go through sequencing and all that to derive the genomic input to feed into training of those
machine learning models. And we also do all the experimental design, app optimization. So just
literally everything everywhere about data we work on, we lead. Outside work, I like outdoorsy
stuff too. We just came back from Europe of a small trip from a couple of days in Vienna,
a couple of days in Budapest. I also love gardening. Although my passion is disproportionately
higher than my skill set, so there are a lot of bad plants along the way. But nevertheless,
they're also ones that are thriving. Really happy to be in this forum and get to know you all. I
look forward to our intimate and exciting conversation. One more thing I do need to say,
I see it's recorded. I do want to mention this will be my opinion, and my opinion only doesn't
represent VeriCite or any of the non-profit I work for. Oh, last thing, we also love to work
in non-profit just like Ning. So that's how we met each other. We were both leaders in BBSW,
the Bay Area BioPharm, Biotech Statistic Workshop. And if you're interested, we can tell you more
about it. We have our annual conference coming up in October. Awesome. Thank you. I see some
love for the aquarium as your virtual background here too. Thank you. Yeah,
because I talk very fast and this reminds me to slow down.
Well, I get to kick things off as we wait for questions to come in from everybody. But I know
the three of us have talked a bit about enabling data-driven decision making. And I was wondering
if you could share a little bit more about what that means for each of your organizations today.
Sure. I can kick it off. So what I realized is data science, statistics are fundamental and
crucial for product development. Everybody knows that, right? Either in drug development like in
Ning's world or in diagnostic development in my world. However, we can do much more, right?
We can help almost every step of the business and we should, right? Nowadays, data is so readily
available from supply chain to how to get more effective inpatient claims. And we are doing that
in VeriSign. So there are many more things and it should be like a smart business decision should be
one available based on data and evidence, right? And we have a unique advantage of sitting at that
juncture with access to the right data and with the skillset to derive that important data insight
to help better the business. So that's, I felt like it's opportunity, but also a wonderful
responsibility for us to make our business better and benefit the patients. Ning, anything to add?
Yeah, totally. Totally agree, Jing. Yeah. Maybe just like dive a little bit more into the pharma
space. Yeah, exactly as Jing mentioned. I think traditionally, I think the file set has been
very important or data sets have been a very important role in the pharma industry for many
years. And if we look at a kind of like a traditional job description, I think a lot of
emphasis is on kind of how we design trial once we have a successful phase one or phase two,
how we design a confirmatory trial based on the scientific findings, et cetera.
But nowadays, I think with, totally agree with Jing that there are so much data out there and there
are so much we can influence our stakeholders. For example, like, yeah, we have manufactured data.
We have those like kind of like site performance data in terms of their enrollment speed, in terms
of their data quality. And we have those like kind of competitor data or research data, real-world
data to let us know that whether the contrarian assumption we had from earlier phase trials still
holds in the current situation. And also for reimbursement, like maybe there is a,
so in some cases, like there is a meaningful, statistically meaningful, like difference over
there, but whether that magnitude of improvement is sufficient for reimbursement in certain
countries, et cetera. So there are so much we can do by bringing different type of data,
different modality of data together. Yeah. Thank you. I see Mike already asked a question
here in the chat. Mike, do you want to jump in first? Hi. Yeah. Nice to be here. Nice to see
Ning and Jing here. Ning, your job title is something around accelerating data science.
So what does accelerating involve? How do you accelerate things? Yeah, that's a very good
question. Yeah. So for my team, our team actually are really focused on data science software and
data science infrastructure. Yeah. So like in the past, kind of like reflecting on what Jing and
myself said, in the past we oftentimes like follow up a trial in a more linear way, et cetera. And
like there are very well-defined output to be generated, tables to be generated, like graphs to
be generated. But now with the kind of like richness of data, on one side, like with the
opportunity of open source tools, like those automation, like advanced technologies, like
there is a ways for us to automate many of the stuff. Like that's one thing, like what my team
is focusing on. So like if we can have like very good standard in a certain disease area or certain
like a certain disease area, then we can automate a lot of things. So we don't need to
do this more like transactional type of analysis repeatedly. On the other side, like with all those
modern technologies, modern database, and then also tools and methodologies, there is a great
opportunities for us to bring different data together. Like from Roche, we do have a big
initiative, like trying to have this like large curated data set by combining like data from
different molecules together, so that like we can have a very rich data set to help us do this
reverse translation for the next generation of drug targeted discovery, et cetera. Yeah.
So accelerating isn't, well, it's many faceted, right? There's many facets of that. I think,
yeah, yeah. Doing things more efficiently, quicker, more routinely, more automated,
as well as the kind of sciencey bit, if you like, of feeding back and the right things at the right
time. Exactly. I think like, if I think about our data science team, exactly to your point,
there are two facets. There is the deliverable execution part of that. And for that part,
we try to automate as much as possible. We try to bring in standard, et cetera. And there is also
this like insight generation, scientific research part. On that part, we want to make it as easy as
possible for the scientists to generate new insight so that that can be feedback to earlier
research. Exactly. Yeah. If some people listening in today might not be at this point yet in their
organizations, how do you recommend convincing your company to use data, not just for
technical solutions, but also for the strategy planning?
I can chime in with some experience, right? So first of all, it's usually easier to do
quick wins, right? Whether it's small or big, quick is important, right? And also,
hopefully, at least the initial investment is small. You can face it, right? Otherwise, you
say, hey, I need $3 million for three years. You can see the result, at least for small company
with shallow pocket, like, oh, OK, maybe later, right? So you want small wins. And also, you have
to translate or at least speaking in the language where the leadership is more open to listen.
For example, our company wants to leadership change. That happens to all companies. Previously,
the leadership has more of a science background. So convincing them for the scientific breakthrough,
how that directly benefit patients, it's important, right? It's easier to get buy-in.
But recently, our leadership has a much stronger finance business background. The end goal is
always benefit patient, but you have to come in from operational efficiency, how quicker you can
touch more patients, increase the volume of the test, right, from that angle to get buy-in. So I
found, like, small, not necessarily small, but quick wins to build the trust and speaking the
language that the leadership will be open to listen, they're more familiar with, is very
important to get into the strategic space to have data insight impact. I totally agree, Jing. I
actually have a recent example that it was, like, my biggest learning was basically being specific,
being concrete, and identify those quick wins actually driving the impact. Yeah, the example I
want to share a little bit is basically, I think, started from maybe a year or two ago. Within Roche,
we have, like, this very strong interest of making our trials more inclusive. We realized that,
like, nowadays, like, I think the clinical trial, because we measure more stuff, so the clinical
trials have longer and longer inclusion criteria. And then that means, like, you have a smaller and
smaller patient population over there. So basically, we really want to make our trials more inclusive
and then try to pressure test using data to pressure test that whether this is really a
concern or this is just a hypothesis, like, so that we push that just in case this patient
population, like, will have safety risk for our experimental drug, et cetera. So I think in the
very beginning of the initiative, actually, we experienced one problem, like someone called it,
like, a nodding head problem. So if we present this concept, everybody agree with it, but we
didn't see the needle being moved. We didn't see an actual difference on those studies. People all
agree with the concept, but, like, people don't know what action to take. Yeah, so what we did,
what has been very helpful is we really kind of, like, provide this, like, white glove, like,
surveys to one particular study team and sit together with them and pressure test all the
inclusion exclusion criteria and use real-world data to really pressure test that, okay, you put
this one in, but whether there's really evidence to show that, like, excluding this patient
population will de-risk our trial. And we came up with some very concrete suggestions. And what we
did, the next step is basically look at all the protocols in other trials, like with similar
molecule, and then to see whether they include similar language. And then we show the management
team that basically, look, we have this number of trials with exactly the same language over there,
and there is no strong justification of including this language. And what additional evidence you
want to see for us to remove this language for all those trials and how many more patients
potentially we can enroll, like, by removing this one. Yeah, so I found that was very helpful,
the kind of having this more hand-waving statement saying that we all should optimize our
inclusion exclusion criteria. Yeah.
Very true. And it's also advantage to our side, right, if you can quantify the impact,
right? Yeah. With solid data, then it's always more convincing. Absolutely.
I see, Abigail, you asked a question about hiring a little bit earlier. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, thanks. So how do you, because there's this data science, but there's also other subject
matter expertise, how do you think about sort of hiring for that? Like, do you hire data scientists
who also have the subject matter background, or do you train them up in data science,
or are they just like separate roles, like there's the scientists and then there's the
data scientists? I can share a little bit from Genentech, and maybe Jing can share in your
company. Yeah, so because we are a huge organization, like, we have, like, 900 people
globally, you can imagine that definitely we have people who are more like generalists. So,
like, there are people we want them to be, like, equipment to take different roles, et cetera.
But we also kind of, like, hire very, very specialized talent, for example, imaging talent,
or real-world data experts, biomarker, like, genomic experts, et cetera. Yeah, so I will say
that, like, for our hiring, I think for junior roles, especially when we hire master grads,
we don't really look into specific kind of, like, specialty. So, like, what we look into is more
curiosity and ability to learn collaboration skills, et cetera. Yeah, but, like, for those
more specialized roles, like, we may look into more senior people. Yeah. Yeah, I can add a little
bit, definitely similar theme for our company, which is much smaller. So, we are definitely
very focused on the business need, and it can change from not only year to year, but quarter
to quarter. Sometime there is a very focused need on a specific area, and we foresee that will last
at least two to three years, for example. There is a big need on assay optimization right now.
And then we need bioinformatics who are just extremely familiar with RNA sequencing
assay, right? And then there are other need in different function we need that is almost like
kind of wearing all kinds of hats and be fluent. Then it is less about a specific skill,
but there is just a general focus on the data science or data engineering.
Thank you. I know we talked a little bit about some of these quick wins, but also accelerating
data science. And I know from many Hangout conversations, data can be so isolated across
organizations, and there are so many different silos. How do you recommend that teams start
bringing these diverse data sources together? Jing, do you want to start? Sure, I can start.
Again, it actually echoes back to the quick win. Usually, just like Ning said,
if you come up to say, oh, we need to standardize, we need to connect, people will nod their head,
but they're not going to really commit. It's like, yeah, sounds like a good idea,
no reason not to, you know, play along, but whatever, right? But usually what we do,
and it's out of necessity for a smaller company, is concrete project, right? Concrete project,
it turns out, because in our company, we want to really leverage the resource and talents across
side. We went through several acquisitions in the last couple of years, and we really diversified
our talents, and we realized, oh my god, like there is a, you know, resource and talents in
this side, although the project is initiated by this legacy company. And just to enable that
talent can access that data, then there is a concrete problem you have to solve instead of
calling it. So basically, it's almost bottom up. Start with project to say, hey, see how much
efficiency we can create instead of hiring outside consultant, blah, blah, blah. We have internal
talent resource to tackle it together and break silos, and then that become an ecosystem. You get
a lot of buying from cross-functional stakeholders, then it's the time to maybe start an initiative,
and that's how we came about. How about you, Ning? Yeah, Jing, I totally agree. I think like starting
from something concrete, and I think like Jing, you and me also discussed a little bit on like
whether we, it's a matter of bringing data together, or it's a matter of bringing the people
together, like the data scientists together. Yeah, I think I resonate in that a lot, because like
Roche is a huge company, and it's impossible to bring other data together. Like even combining
more kind of integrating data from clinical trials, which seem like a straightforward task,
is not that easy. So it's actually a huge task over there. On the other side, I feel like a
quick win, like to Jing's point, is maybe bringing the data scientists together. For example, in Roche,
like in pharma, like we have data scientists varying different heights. There are people who
are really, really good at clinical trial design, clinical trial data analysis. There are people
really good at real-world data analysis. There are people really good at genomic analysis,
and sometimes we see that like actually like each person is only kind of like representing their own
kind of like specialty, and then they only share their results like to the stakeholders,
for example, clinicians. And then for the clinicians, actually it could be confusing
if the clinician like see some result from real-world data, some result from clinical
trial data, some result from biomarker data, and we all know that there is no 100% consistency
like across different data sources, like all the models are wrong, all the data's are wrong. Yeah,
so kind of how to triangulate, navigate through those data sources is not an expertise from the
clinicians, from our stakeholders. Actually, it is our expertise. It's an expertise like of data
science to really kind of like take all those diverse results in and find an interpretation
in acknowledging the limitation of each data sources. So yeah, one thing we try to kind of like
like encourage our people to do is bring those data scientists together and then kind of have
this like data science team. In some cases, there is a data science team leader who can really like
bring those data together and share to our stakeholders an actionable interpretation
or even some options for development rather than just say, hey, there are like 20 pages report,
go read it and figure out how to do with it. Yeah. And I can maybe add one thing. I was in a,
you know, senior leadership on the data science forum. We talked about and the common theme
is it may sound mundane, but when we say bring data together, it is very worthwhile to figure
out for each stakeholder what that means. And you will be very surprised that actually
may mean a very different thing. One person may be meaning we have to standardize literally into
one database. One person may be, oh, I just need the data could be linked together. They could be
conjoined, whatever. I don't care where they sit. It could be even further loose, as Ning said. I
just need different data scientists at different sites to be able to access so they can analyze
the data. So what bring data together means figure out that understanding difference.
And then as a data science leader, you come in for that specific problem to say,
what makes the best sense for this particular project? Right. Then you educate all the
cross-functional stakeholder to say, I know you initially saw means this, but for this project,
because of ABC, we really need to do either just this or more this, right, to enable the project to
go forward. That really help establish your technical leadership and strategic leadership,
because the cross-functional leader is very important for them to feel they have been heard.
Instead of we just rush into our own assumption, they were like, what? This is not what I saw,
what data together even means, right? So spend the time at the beginning to do this
understanding alignment will benefit tremendously down the road.
Maybe real quick here on this nodding head problem. If you do find yourself in a meeting
where that's happening, I know there's all the things we could do before, but how do you
address it and stop that? I can also chime in, right? It depends on things, right? If it is
really just, oh, bring to the awareness, bring data intelligence across functions without a
need for a concrete output, nodding head is great. Then you follow up with a quick survey, oh,
90% support, right? That's just wrapping the project up. It's a great success. We increase
the awareness. However, if it's an urgent project, I think instead of relying on other people to be
a strategic leader, we have to step up to do more things technical. I encourage my team members,
including myself, we have action item beforehand. We say, if you agree, please do this, this, this
by this week, right? Or if you need to review, here's the timeframe we can answer question,
blah, blah, blah, blah. But we expect you to take this action by this time if you agree with the
general plan. If you have other thing you need to sort out, clarify, whatever, we are here to help,
right? And then you have a framework, a timeframe. Then you kind of start nudging people. Like you
said, you're going to deliver three weeks. That's what we decided in this meeting, followed by
meeting minutes, where's the progress, right? So you start the framework that will help make
everybody accountable instead of just nodding head, right? You start, you prepare ahead of time,
like what is required, implied by you nodding your head.
Yeah, I totally agree. I also feel like sometimes when I talk to my team, like, yeah, sometimes I
also see myself and including myself, some of my team members, like we have the perception that we
will present this problem to a meeting and magically in the meeting, someone will chime in
and find a solution. But 90% of the time, it won't happen because for people in the meeting,
they only think about this specific problem for like 30 minutes, an hour. And you have been
thinking about this problem probably for weeks and months. And if you don't have a very clear,
to Jing's point, if you don't have a very clear kind of like expected outcome or expected next
step, like for this project that no one in the meeting will come up with a better plan over there.
Thank you. George, I see you put a question to the chat. You want to jump in here?
Yeah, sure. So yeah, my question goes along the lines, I guess as it relates to
anything you talked about earlier, like getting some buy-in. So when thinking about automating
some data science workflows, I think the, not an issue, but one thing that may come up is like,
well, you know, I don't want this tool that you're building to replace me, right? I don't want this to
like automate me out of a job kind of thing, right? So like you want to influence or you
want to sell the tools that you build based on the needs of that person internally. How do you
go about the better, like translating that, right? Or getting that buy-in from people to see like,
yeah, like this self-service tool or this tool that can help you automate some statistical analysis
or whatever kind of help in your workflow, not meant to replace you, but assist you.
How do you go about that?
Maybe I'll get started with Jing. Please feel free to chime in. Yeah, I feel like in my mind,
like kind of like when you talk to people like about their day-to-day job, there are definitely
things they enjoy doing and there are things they don't enjoy doing. And oftentimes the things they
don't enjoy doing are the ones we try to automate over there. Those are the repetitive tasks. Those
things can be standardized, et cetera. Yeah. So I think, yeah, I totally agree with you. I think
there is a fine balance over there, kind of like trying to like align with people or make people
realize that by automating certain tasks that allow you to have more time to work on the things
that you enjoy about. And also to ensure people that in the portfolio, there are sufficient
amount of work that you will be more interesting and more impactful than kind of doing this
repetitive job every day. So I think that's the approach I would take. Yeah.
Totally agree. I think, you know, from a personal level, make sure it's, you know, more enjoyable.
And then definitely on both Ling and my case, we just have way more work we can handle. So,
and I think from business level, right, there are two ways. One is kind of not offensive,
but proactive, right? Being able to automate a lot of the tedious, repetitive work,
we will be more innovative, right? We'll be more at the cutting edge and more competitive in our
own business. And we'll be able to use our insight instead of just the technical capability of doing
repetitive work to basically create not only more work for ourself, create more data insight value
for the company, right? So our position, our function is more important. We can really help
the company as with what we discussed at the very beginning. And also from a defensive point of view,
if you just coming out of the fear, oh, I couldn't lay out people, so let's not automate,
you become obsolete. You become much less efficient compared to your competitors in the same space,
right? Then the company will suffer. That will be probably more a realistic risk when the company
suffers, then you will be laid off or whatever, right? Versus thinking about you being replaced
by a more modern technology. If you're a competent data scientist,
you should be able to create more values than just doing repetitive work.
Awesome, thank you so much. Thank you. Roy, I see you asked a question a bit earlier on
interactions with the FDA. Do you want to jump in? Yeah, sure. Hi, thanks for speaking guys today. So
yeah, I guess, you know, ultimately the ultimate goal of data science is to impact the downstream
product. And so when you're dealing with the downstream product, you're going to have to deal
with the FDA. So, you know, there's a lot of interesting things you can do with data science,
like for example, synthetic control arms. I mentioned other, like a few other things,
including selecting patients for clinical trials. You know, I guess the FDA kind of has guidance,
but you know, guidance is not binding as you guys know. And so I want to know kind of what type of
data science projects have you guys done and have you kind of seen, you know, the potential
seeing, kind of carry them through to kind of talking to the FDA with them, about them,
and what were your experiences with that? I'll let Ning answer, because we're not in the FDA
space. So we are regulated in our IVD business by the European EMA, but I'll let Ning answer.
Sure. Yeah. So I think my example may be more toward the deliverable, but not too much about
the design. I know that you mentioned about synthetic control, et cetera. I know within
Roche there are also a lot of colleagues who are like working on that, working closely with FDA
in terms of kind of like having those more modernized design and getting buy-in for those
modernized design. And for myself, my involvement is more in the kind of like deliverable,
actual finding of like phase three trial of a product. Yeah. So basically I've been working
in this space trying to kind of like enable the industry to use open source language and
especially our language for FDA submission. Yeah. So I would say like, yeah, it is a process. It's
definitely a process. Like exactly as you said, I think like from, I don't know which year,
maybe Mike remember which year, I think it was like from 10 years ago, FDA like had this guidance
saying that FDA is not requiring any statistical software for this like drug filing. However,
like in reality, I think like every single company is using commercial software for their filing
and we don't see the needle being moved. So similar to the nodding head problem.
And then, so we started this like our consortium, our submission working group probably four years
ago. And then the idea was kind of like having those publicly available examples showing actually
sponsors can use open source software to do drug filing. Yeah. So like similar to a previous
example, like we have like a connection from FDA, like from FDA, they also have open source
and services like from their group. So we identify those people, collaborate with them,
and then like did those like pilot filings in the public space, showing people how to do that,
and also kind of learn what is the best practice over there. And so I think like definitely take
time, but it's good to start small and start with individuals who are passionate about that.
The other thing, what I learned is also in those cross-industry collaborations, it's very good
learning experience to know like what's in it for them, like what's in it for FDA. Yeah. Because
like in FDA, like they have people who want to use open source language, but they also have
limitations of their system, et cetera. There are so much learnings in those cross-industry
collaborations for us to realize that how can we make their life easier when review the application.
Yeah. So I think that was like one example I want to share in this space. Yeah.
Thank you. Oh, sorry. Someone was about to jump in. No, I just saw Mike turn on
his camera. I just wonder whether he wants to chime in a little bit there. Yeah.
Yeah. So, I mean, I have to do this whenever I see Ning, because like her and the
R Consortium Submissions Working Group, I think are really transforming the future of submissions
to regulatory authorities. The great thing about it is that it's a kind of, it's bipartisan.
So it's the industry and the regulators both looking at this together and saying,
what shape do we want this to take in future?
And Ning, I think it would be a great opportunity if I'm not standing on Rachel's toes
to talk about the submissions pilots, because that's where the working group are trying
things and sending things to regulators and getting the feedback and then reacting to that.
Mike, I'm always happy to have you be a host with me too, not standing on any toes here.
Thank you. Yeah. Maybe not derail the topic a little bit, but I can share
maybe some learnings over there. So basically we are wrapping up our pilot number three
right now. And I think that one learning is that, going back to James' point, again,
start small. So when we did pilot number one, there are so much unknown over there. So the
scope was really, really small. So for our pilot number one, we decided to only do an experiment
to submit four table graphics. And we are not doing any data set submission. And we want to
test out different tools, et cetera. It's really just a feasibility testing at that time. And I
think that was great so that we can wrap up the pilot one in several months and get a formal FDA
letter saying that this is feasible. Yeah. And after that, I think we became bolder and bolder.
And our pilot two was actually submitting a Shiny app, an interactive app to FDA so that they can
redeploy the app on their system to do their review. And our pilot three is adding this
data set component to show that the open source language-generated data set process, the data set
can also reproduce what the commercial language produced. And then now we are looking to pilot
four where we will introduce, again, very boldly introducing this container and also WebR component,
which will be really, really interesting. Yeah. So I think the journey has been really nice to
have this iterative learning. And I see our goal become bolder and bolder after knowing each other
better. Yeah. So I talked about this at PositConf last year that over 30 years in industry, we've
gone from paper submissions to PDF submissions, which are essentially the same things but with
hypertext links. But what I think we're getting to with the WebR and with the submissions for
pilot is something utterly different, really fundamentally different. And I think that's
really exciting because it's getting into the 21st century. We're typically, farming industry
is known for not moving terribly quickly. But I think this is an example where we are.
Yeah, I'm really excited about that. Yeah.
So I know we just touched upon this question because you mentioned using R and you mentioned
using Shiny. But Bill had asked, always interested in the infrastructure. So you said the focus is
on models. How are these developed? What languages do you use? And do you use the cloud?
Yeah, I can share a little bit. I think, Jing, you guys probably are more advanced than us. Yeah.
So like from Roche, like right now, we are finally moving to a cloud infrastructure. Yeah. So
previously for pharma, oftentimes we use commercial software, we use proprietary system, etc. Yeah. So
it's a little bit black box sometimes. And also you can imagine that it's really hard to add in
new features when there are new AI models coming in or new language pop up like Julia, etc. So it's
really hard to make them work on commercial platform or together with commercial language.
Yeah. So we are in this process of moving to AWS-based infrastructure. And on the infrastructure,
we enable kind of data scientists to use whatever language they found it being appropriate for their
project. So our Python stats like Julia, etc. Yeah. And we are in the middle of that. So this
year, we are hoping, like in Roche, product development data science, we are hoping to
move 90% of our active molecules to this new platform. And I hope next year, once people
settle down with the platform, etc., we will see more innovations and more automated solutions,
etc. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. We're in a different regulation space. I would say
not as rigorous as drug, and that provided us some flexibility. So RMPython has always been,
you know, kind of the building blocks and fundamental language we always use.
And we then use specific language to tackle, for example, sequencing, sometimes tackle
imaging analysis. And we just use whatever is the most fit and most, you know, advanced,
right? It could change from year to year as well. We are really agnostic to the language we use.
And infrastructure-wise, there is definitely a move from on-prem to cloud. Interestingly,
to add to the complexity, because our recent acquisitions, not only we leverage different
cloud platforms, there could be also regulation, like GDPR restrictions, like we acquired two
European companies. What company can flow from U.S. to Europe versus Europe to U.S., and how to
control that in AWS could be, you know, not only a solid but sometimes complex problem. So we are
definitely also in the journey. Yeah.
Thank you. Prabha, I saw you ask the question a little bit earlier.
Trying to scroll up to see it, but do you want to jump in here?
In Genentech and Verisight, how much of your work is initiated from data science personnel or teams
versus business saying this is the priority? I can provide, because our product is machine
learning models. So it is – I will say in the most healthy organization, I certainly believe
Verisight is one. It's never one or the other. It's a joint one, right? So usually it's an iterative
process. We say, hey, let's just start, right? Like one example, hey, you know, our commercial
folks will come say to say we continuously hear feedback to say it would be really helpful to add
a feature to our product, right? Or they will come say, well, it would be really helpful to add A and
B and C to our product all at once, right? Then we'll say, hey, guess what? From a data science
point of view, A needs six months development you can deploy. B needs about two years. C,
we are uncertain. We need to do phased approach, right? What is the investment? Remember finance
people is in the leadership. What is investment in each? What is the ROI? What is uncertainty?
Let's decide as a team, right? And then, you know, that's the initial data evidence we provide with
our expertise, right? How long it will take to develop? How long, you know, how large is the
investment? And then the commercial come back to say, guess what? Now I see A, B, C. Each will
give us how much more revenue or volume increase or stickiness from the customer. This is what we
get. And then with that two piece of information, we decide to say, hey, maybe sometimes it's a
selection. Let's just try B because it's so quick. Or they will say, let's try B and A at the same
time and hire more people because it sounds so important. So it's really a dynamic, cross-functional
decision for our business. Yeah, I agree with Jing. I also feel like it's rarely A versus B,
like kind of like a functional interest versus business need. Often it has both components.
Yeah. So from Roche, like we are actually, our culture actually encourage a lot of grassroot
effort. So we encourage people to innovate in their daily work. So there are a lot of ideas
popping up and et cetera. And oftentimes those ideas are coming from actual study need. And then
to the earlier point, there are the things people feel bored about, like the repetitive work,
et cetera. Yeah. So oftentimes those are from actual need. And a larger question is some of
those needs are only tied with one particular project or one particular study. Some of them
are applicable for the whole portfolio or across different projects, et cetera. So I feel like
what our leadership team try to do is basically still encourage innovation, but if they see any
kind of innovation and they see an innovation that can be applied as an amplifier across a
large number of projects, then they give a push to this project. Yeah. So that kind of like taking
an example from myself, actually, when I joined Roche about eight years ago, I was about statistician.
So I was working on clinical trials, like doing design, doing clinical trial reporting. And at
that time I realized that there is opportunity for us to adopt open source languages and do better
code sharing, code standardization, et cetera. So actually it was kind of like my hobby project
for several years until maybe like three, four years ago. In Roche, we decided to double down
to this strategy of adopting open source tools and platforms. And then this became my day job.
Yeah. So I think like, yeah, kind of like there is definitely a kind of like incubation period,
but like from our company, we encourage like all the new ideas from the grassroots efforts. Yeah.
Yeah. Thank you.
Thank you so much. So I always like to sneak this question in, but is there a piece of
career advice that you've received or that you've given others that you'd like to share with us?
I can start. So we usually are very technical. This is about communication,
just to set the context. We're usually very technical people, but the audience sometimes,
especially for strategic decisions, are usually not technical people. Sometimes we want to be
so rigorous, we say or claim humbly that add 20 caveat, right? Does the 20 caveat really need to
be said in the meeting? So I always say, really think about the audience. It's rarely that
important what you're about to say or what you said is about what they hear, right? What do you
want to get out of that conversation, right? Then structure your communication. Be more confident
on the positive claim if there is one, right? Maybe put the caveat in the no section.
You are no longer a student. You don't have to be demonstrate your capability. We hired you.
That's already enough. You should demonstrate what the result means. What is the next step,
right? How I can move the business forward? What is the impact to each cross-functional leaders
beyond the technical caveat and technical details, right? So that's always a communication tip
I give people who work as a data scientist or in data analytics in the industry setting.
I really like that. And I know from BBSW conference, we also talk about this decision
size, like my side. So basically, to James' point, I think the main goal is enable decisions,
is to enable actions. It's not showcasing our capability that I can generate 200 outputs
over there or showcasing that I can do a really complex model over there. It's really enable
the next decision. And I remember I was reading a book called The Manager's Path. And on one
section, it's saying, how do you manage your one-on-ones with your manager? I think in my
earlier career, I always treat my one-on-one as a reporting meeting, just a laundry list of things
that I did, et cetera. And after reading that part, it really emphasized that treating every
one-on-one meeting as an opportunity to ask your manager to help you with certain things,
kind of like manage app, to ask them to take certain actions to help you or ask them to share
a certain context that can help with your work. Yeah, I found that really insightful. Yeah, yeah,
yeah. And maybe another thing to add on is also learn from BBSW. I think I learned so much from
those nonprofit organizations. It's kind of like finding a network of mentors. Yeah, I think for
BBSW, it gave me the opportunity to meet a number of leaders in the Bay Area. And everybody had
their own perspectives. Everybody had different career journey. People working in different type
of companies, different type of groups. And I found that having this mentorship coaching,
like the opportunity to get mentorship and coaching from a diverse group of people
have been really, really helpful. Yeah, because I think everybody has their blind side. And what
your manager believes or what your leadership tends to believe may be slightly different
than other leaders. And it's really helpful to get the diverse perspectives. Yeah.
I love that. Both of those. Thank you so much. I want to also give you a chance to share a little
bit about that group that you're involved with as well, in case others in the Hangout may be
interested too. Jing, do you want to share BBSW? Yeah, sure. So we both, Ning and I, we both work
on the BBSW, the Bay Area Biotech Pharma Statistic Workshop. And if you just do bbsw.org,
you get there. We have our exciting annual conference coming up at the end of October
in Foster City in Bay Area. If you happen to be in Bay Area, that is one of the, I'm biased,
but I still say one of the best conference. Really, not only we talk about cutting edge
methodologies, we have now a data science track and a statistical track. So we talk more broader
topics. And we have also soft skill sessions. It is emphasis leadership coaching. And it is,
many people come back to say, not only the technical and soft skill sessions are helpful,
it's the best way to network, right? We have a lot of opportunities with breaks to networking
with each other, really broaden your horizon. And the food, I think is otherworldly. So many
people come back to say that's the best food in any conference I've attended in their 10-year
career, 20-year career, 30-year career. So that says something. So the food and you can, you know,
it never, always helps with yummy food when you network. Yeah, that's one. And we also have
SFASA, the Bay Area ASA chapter. So sfasa.net, that's another non-profit I'm working on.
So that also has a lot of, again, Bay Area focus. If you are not in Bay Area, don't worry.
There's another one called dashu.org, D-A-H-S-H-U.org. That's a data science community.
It's a global community. We have monthly seminars, and we have just restarted our annual
in-person conference in Michigan in May after the pandemic. So that's another one you can connect,
you can contribute. If you have topic you want to present, go for it. It's a platform for every
person in the data science community. So that's all. Ning, do you want to add anything?
Yeah, maybe just for BBSW, like if you are not in the area, like I'm also co-hosting the BBSW
meetups. Like we have probably three, four virtual meetups every year. And then the topics are very,
very varying from data science topics to self-sealed topics to maybe disease area knowledge
topics. Yeah. So you're more than welcome to join the Zoom meetings. And also if you have any
topics you're interested in, please feel free to share with me. And like we can try to reach out
to the experts in the field. Yeah. Thank you so much. Jing, thank you. I was just about to ask
you what was the link to the second one. I think so. Awesome. I will be sure to share those links
with the recording when I put it up to YouTube as well. I know there were a few questions that
I missed from earlier, and I'm so sorry to have some questions go unanswered here. I feel like we
could talk to you both for hours here. This has been great. I do see one last question because
we have three minutes here. Sol, you had asked a question about different data science projects
and recommendations. Do you want to jump in? Yeah, I can. Can you guys hear me okay? Yes,
again. Great. Yeah. Ning and Jing, thank you so much. You guys have such practical advice,
and this is actually super useful. I did want to get you guys' perspective on, you know,
projects can be super complex. Sometimes they go in directions that aren't expected. Do you
guys have any tips or recommendations for when a project maybe doesn't go as planned? Like maybe a
product doesn't do as well as you guys had hoped? Or maybe there's some side effects for a particular
thing that wasn't foreseen, and how do you guys normally handle that?
Maybe I can get started. I feel like the really hard problem to solve is to stop a project when
it is not promising or it is not relevant anymore. And I think if I ask for my practical advice,
I would say that if you feel like something is not right, then probably something is not right,
and speak up and have an honest conversation with leadership, et cetera, to see whether we
want to stop it and how to stop it. Sometimes stopping it is not easy, especially if it's a
cross-functional project. And if nothing works, my advice is to try to move to another project.
Try to find a more impactful project if you really don't see a value in this project. Yeah. Jing?
Very true, and echoes earlier point about managing up. This is a perfect discussion
you can bring to your manager. I always tell my team, and I practice with my manager,
is you don't always do the status report and give me the good news. I can read that on a
conference page, right? Use me as a thinking partner. Bring the question, right? And then
as a data scientist, one important but sometimes awkward question you don't want to ask is,
is this still a data science question to solve? For the project, even everything works well in
the data science, putting the resource time aside. Let me say, let me say I can give you
that data science answer right now. Would that solve the fundamental problem, right? That may
help people thinking, because otherwise the human psychology tendency really just want to keep on
going, not admitting this is already beyond the point of safe, right? You may be asking small
questions to large people there. Wow, super useful. Thank you so much.
Thank you all so much for joining us today and for all the great questions to Ning and Jing.
This has been awesome. I've loved this conversation and I have so many lessons here to go and
think about for my own role too. I really appreciate you taking the time to join us.
Our pleasure. Thank you. Very nice to meet everybody. Yes, indeed. Let's keep in touch.
Have a great rest of the day.